Bullet Feeder Printing Details

Designed to be printed in PLA, raftless on glass by a printer with 200mm x 200mm x 200mm build volume.  The prototype parts were printed using Diamond Age 3mm PLA filament fed through a Dibond Mendel90 printer.  The raftless print and glass bed are particularly important as the design uses the flat, slippery surface produced by printing on glass instead of a bearing.

The default print settings are listed below and apply to all parts unless specified
Gcode generated by slic3r
Layer size is 0.3mm
Orientation is as imported
No raft/brim
No support
Hexagonal infill with setting 0.2
2 vertical shells
2 horizontal shells


Bowl Base (1x):
This needed to be rotated by 30 degrees or so in order to print.  This is an extremely large/long print that needs to be quite flat so bed adhesion is important for this part.

Bowl (1x):
May not leave enough room for a skirt so may have to disable for this one.  This is an extremely large/long print but is slightly less critical than the base in terms of shape/flatness.  There is a somewhat ugly slot for the drive gear in the side that the printer can't bridge nicely due to it being in a curved surface.  This normally just gets cleaned up with a craft knife or file afterwards until the drive gear rotates freely.  This would be a perfect candidate for use with a support-capable slicer.  Would use clear/natural PLA for next versions of this part.

Platter (1x):
This is another large part that needs to be flat on the glass in order to work correctly.

Center (1x):
This needs to be flat but shouldn't pose any problems.

Drive Gear (1x):
Ideally this part should be printed solid.  Depending on how well tuned the extrusion parameters are, this can result in a part that has messy edges if the printer is over-extruding.  This was easiest to solve by using the solid infill for small areas setting within Slic3r.  By setting this to be slightly larger than the area of the 'hub' part of the gear but not the gear itself, then the hub gets printed solid.  The hub dimensions are relatively non-critical, so there are no issues with print quality on this piece.  The hub is 30mm diameter so roughly 700 square mm.  Alternatively, this could be solved by modifying the extrusion parameters to extrude less plastic just for this one part.

Motor Mount (1x):
No issues

Feed Die Switch Tube (1x):
This may be difficult to print without a brim.  A brim won't affect the design at all.  This part may require a lot of filing and modification to fit the microswitch.  Suggest clear/natural PLA for this part.

Wiper (1x):
No issues
